Add documentation on karpenter (#13036)
kubernetes/kops: docs/operations/karpenter.md

# Karpenter

> [Karpenter](https://karpenter.sh) is a Kubernetes-native capacity manager that directly provisions Nodes and underlying instances based on Pod requirements. On AWS, kOps supports InstanceGroups managed by Karpenter rather than the default Auto Scaling Group manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Karpenter](https://karpenter.sh) is a Kubernetes-native capacity manager that directly provisions Nodes and underlying instances based on Pod requirements. On AWS, kOps supports managing an InstanceGroup with either Karpenter or an AWS Auto Scaling Group (ASG).
```

Karpenter is a fairly new project, and it is still not determined how Karpenter should work with kOps. Because of this, Karpenter is behind the `Karpenter` feature flag.

## Installing

Enable the Karpenter feature flag:

```sh
export KOPS_FEATURE_FLAGS="Karpenter"
```

> Karpenter requires that external permissions for ServiceAccounts is enabled for the cluster. See [AWS IAM roles for ServiceAccounts documentation](/cluster_spec#service-account-issuer-discovery-and-aws-iam-roles-for-service-accounts-irsa) for how to enable this. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Karpenter requires that external permissions for ServiceAccounts be enabled for the cluster. See [AWS IAM roles for ServiceAccounts documentation](/cluster_spec#service-account-issuer-discovery-and-aws-iam-roles-for-service-accounts-irsa) for how to enable this. 
```

### Existing clusters

> On existing clusters, you can create a Karpenter InstanceGroup by adding the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On existing clusters, you can create a Karpenter InstanceGroup by adding the following to its InstanceGroup spec:
```

```yaml
spec:
  manager: Karpenter
```

> You also need to enable the Karpenter addon in the: cluster spec:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You also need to enable the Karpenter addon in the cluster spec:
```

```yaml
spec:
  karpenter:
    enabled: true
```

### New clusters

On new clusters, you can simply add the `--instance-manager=karpenter` flag:

```sh

> kops create cluster --name mycluster.example.com --cloud aws --networking=amazonvpc --zones=eu-central-1a,eu-central-1b --master-count=3  --yes --discovery-store=s3://discovery-store/

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kops create cluster --name mycluster.example.com --cloud aws --networking=amazonvpc --zones=eu-central-1a,eu-central-1b --master-count=3 --yes --discovery-store=s3://discovery-store/
```

```

## Karpenter-managed InstanceGroups

> A Karpenter-managed InstanceGroup controls a corresponding Karpenter Provisioner resource. kOps will ensure that the Provisioner is configured with the correct AWS security groups, subnets, and launch templates. Just like with ASG-managed InstanceGroups you can add labels and taints to Nodes, and kOps will ensure those are added accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Karpenter-managed InstanceGroup controls a corresponding Karpenter Provisioner resource. kOps will ensure that the Provisioner is configured with the correct AWS security groups, subnets, and launch templates. Just like with ASG-managed InstanceGroups, you can add labels and taints to Nodes and kOps will ensure those are added accordingly.
```

> Note that not all features of InstanceGroups is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that not all features of InstanceGroups are supported.
```

## Instance Types

If you do not specify a mixed instances policy, only the instance type specified by `spec.machineType` will be used. With Karpenter, one typically wants a wider range of instances to choose from. kOps supports both providing a list of instance types through `spec.mixedInstancesPolicy.instances` and providing instance type requirements through `spec.mixedInstancesPolicy.instanceRequirements`. See (/instance_groups)[InstanceGroup documentation] for more details.

> ## Known limitatins

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known limitations
```

How about putting the "Other minor limitations" content here?

### Subnet selections

> kOps will ignore the InstanceGroup `spec.subnets` configuration and unconditionally add all subnets eligible to run Nodes on to all Provisioners. It is not possible to create Provisioners limited only to certain subnets at the moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
kOps will ignore the InstanceGroup `spec.subnets` configuration and unconditionally add all subnets eligible to run Nodes to all Provisioners. It is not currently possible to create Provisioners limited only to certain subnets.
```

### CNI expectations

> Karpenter expects the CNI to be `amazonaws` and does the same max Pods calculations as nodeup. For other CNIs that means that Karpenter will bundle too few Pods on single Nodes for smaller instances, and too many Pods on larger instances. The default Karpenter-managed InstanceGroup is configured to avoid very large instance types for this reason.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Karpenter assumes the CNI is `amazonaws` when it calculates the maximum number of Pods that fit on a node. For other CNIs this means that Karpenter will calculate too few Pods on for smaller instances and too many Pods on larger instances. The default Karpenter-managed InstanceGroup is configured to avoid very large instance types for this reason.
```

### Karpenter-managed Launch Templates

> By default, Karpener will create its own launch templates for Provisioners. These launch templates will not work with kOps cluster for a number of reasons. Most importantly they do not use a supported AMI and they do not install and configure the nodeup, the server-side kOps component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Karpener will create its own launch templates for Provisioners. These launch templates will not work with kOps cluster for a number of reasons. Most importantly they do not use a supported AMI and they do not install and configure nodeup, the instance-side kOps component.
```

> You have to configure the Provisioner to use a custom launch template that is based on the kOps configuration. Maintaining kOps-specific launch templates and keeping them in sync is not straight-forward. For example the launch template's user data contains a hash of the configurations and binaries and will refuse to start the provisioning process if these do not match.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You have to configure the Provisioner to use a custom launch template that is based on the kOps configuration. Maintaining kOps-specific launch templates and keeping them in sync is not straight-forward. For example, the launch template's user data contains a hash of the configuration and binaries and will refuse to start the provisioning process if these do not match.
```

kOps doesn't manage this?

### Unmanaged Provisioner resources

As mentioned above, kOps will manage a Provisioner resource per InstanceGroup. It is technically possible to create Provsioner resources directly, but you have to ensure that you configure Provisioners according to kOps requirements. As mentioned above, you in particular need to provide a kOps-compatible launch template.

### Other minor limitations

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

* Control plane nodes must be provisioned with an ASG, not Karpenter.
```

Note that not all features of InstanceGroups are supported.

## Instance Types

If you do not specify a mixed instances policy, only the instance type specified by `spec.machineType` will be used. With Karpenter, one typically wants a wider range of instances to choose from. kOps supports both providing a list of instance types through `spec.mixedInstancesPolicy.instances` and providing instance type requirements through `spec.mixedInstancesPolicy.instanceRequirements`. See (/instance_groups)[InstanceGroup documentation] for more details.

## Known limitations

### Subnet selections

kOps will ignore the InstanceGroup `spec.subnets` configuration and unconditionally add all subnets eligible to run Nodes to all Provisioners. It is not currently possible to create Provisioners limited only to certain subnets.

### CNI expectations

Karpenter assumes the CNI is `amazonaws` when it calculates the maximum number of Pods that fit on a node. For other CNIs this means that Karpenter will calculate too few Pods on for smaller instances and too many Pods on larger instances. The default Karpenter-managed InstanceGroup is configured to avoid very large instance types for this reason.

> ### Karpenter-managed Launch Templates

Reviewer: This section reads as if there is something the user has to actively do, yet it's unclear what that is. The "by default" implies "as managed by kOps".

If this only applies to unmanaged Provisioners, then this text should instead go under the "Unmanaged Provisioner resources" section. Otherwise it should be clearer under what situations a kOps-managed provisioner would create its own launch templates.

> By default, Karpener will create its own launch templates for Provisioners. These launch templates will not work with kOps cluster for a number of reasons. Most importantly they do not use a supported AMI and they do not install and configure nodeup, the instance-side kOps component.

Author: ```suggestion
On EKS, Karpener will create its own launch templates for Provisioners. These launch templates will not work with kOps cluster for a number of reasons. Most importantly they do not use a supported AMI and they do not install and configure nodeup, the instance-side kOps component. The Karpenter features that requires Karpenter to directly manage launch templates will not be available on kOps.
```

Maybe something like this instead?

Reviewer: That's acceptable.

"requires" should be "require" in order to match number with the subject. Also consider "creates" instead of "will create".
